# Advanced Database Systems

> [Course Website](https://15721.courses.cs.cmu.edu/spring2019/)

## Background

[CMU 15-445/645](https://15445.courses.cs.cmu.edu/fall2019/) or other intro course on databases.

## Lecture 1: Introduction

### 1.1 Course Overview

- In-Memory DBMS Architecture
- Early Notable In-Memory DBMSs

### 1.2 Course Objectives

- Understand the design and implementation of modern in-memory database systems

### 1.3 Course Topics

- Concurrency Control
- Indexing
- Storage Models, Compression
- Parallel Join Algorithms
- Networking Protocols
- Logging && Recovery Methods
- Query Optimization, Execution, Compilation

### 1.4 DBMS History

Early DBMSs were designed for single-core CPU and disk-oriented storage. But now DRAM capacities are large enough that most databases can fit in memory.

- Sturctured data sets are smaller
- Unstructured data(such as image) or semi-structured data(such as logfile) sets are larger.

> Why not just use a "tranditional" disk-oriented DBMS with a really large cache?

Disk-Oriented DBMS means that system is going to assume that anytime it needs to read data that in disk rather than memory. Such as Classical MySQL, It need move data from disk to buffer pool.

### 1.5 Buffer Pool
When a query accesses a page, DBMS will first check if this page is in the buffer pool. If it is, then DBMS can read the data from the buffer pool. If it is not, then DBMS will read a frame from disk into the buffer pool. During this process, DBMS will evict a frame from the buffer pool if the buffer pool is full. And if the evicted frame is dirty, then DBMS will write it back to disk.


## Project 1: Optimisze a core component of a DBMS

## Project 2

## project 3
